README.md, before:

# RetDec IDA plugin

RetDec plugin for IDA (Interactive Disassembler).

The plugin is compatible with the following IDA versions: 7.x.
The plugin does NOT work with IDA 6.x, or freeware version of IDA 7.0.
The plugin binary itself is 64-bit, but at the moment, it supports only 32-bit address space. I.e. it works in `ida`, not `ida64`, and can decompile only 32-bit binaries.

## Installation and Use

Currently, we support only Windows and Linux.

### Windows

1. Either download and unpack a pre-built package from the following list, or build and install the RetDec IDA plugin by yourself (the process is described below):

    * [Windows - for 64-bit IDA](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/releases/download/v0.7/retdec-idaplugin-v0.7-windows.zip) (v0.7)

2. Follow the user guide (`user_guide.pdf`) that is part of the downloaded package, or use the [current version](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/blob/master/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf) from this repository.

### Linux

1. Either download and unpack a pre-built package from the following list, or build and install the RetDec IDA plugin by yourself (the process is described below):

    * [Linux - for 64-bit IDA](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/releases/download/v0.7/retdec-idaplugin-v0.7-linux.zip) (v0.7)

2. Follow the user guide (`user_guide.pdf`) that is part of the downloaded package, or use the [current version](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/blob/master/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf) from this repository.

## Build and Installation

### Requirements

**Note: These are requirements to build the RetDec IDA plugin, not to run it. See our [User Guide](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/blob/master/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf) for information on plugin installation, configuration, and use.**

* A compiler supporting C++14
  * On Windows, only Microsoft Visual C++ is supported (version >= Visual Studio 2015).
* CMake (version >= 3.6)
* IDA SDK (version == 7.0)

### Process

* Clone the repository:
  * `git clone https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin.git`
* Linux:
  * `cd retdec-idaplugin`
  * `mkdir build && cd build`
  * `cmake .. -DIDA_SDK_DIR=<path>`
  * `make`
  * `make install` (if `IDA_PATH` was set, see below)
* Windows:
  * Open a command prompt (e.g. `C:\msys64\msys2_shell.cmd` from [MSYS2](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec/wiki/Windows-Environment))
  * `cd retdec-idaplugin`
  * `mkdir build && cd build`
  * `cmake .. -DIDA_SDK_DIR=<path> -G<generator>`
  * `cmake --build . --config Release -- -m`
  * `cmake --build . --config Release --target install` (if `IDA_PATH` was set, see below)
  * Alternatively, you can open `retdec-idaplugin.sln` generated by `cmake` in Visual Studio IDE.

You must pass the following parameters to `cmake`:
* `-DIDA_SDK_DIR=</path/to/idasdk>` to tell `cmake` where the IDA SDK directory is located.
* (Windows only) `-G<generator>` is `-G"Visual Studio 14 2015 Win64"` for 64-bit build using Visual Studio 2015. Later versions of Visual Studio may be used. Only 64-bit build is supported.

You can pass the following additional parameters to `cmake`:
* `-DIDA_PATH=</path/to/ida>` to tell `cmake` where to install the plugin. If specified, installation will copy plugin binary into `IDA_PATH/plugins`, and content of `scripts/idc` directory into `IDA_PATH/idc`. If not set, installation step does nothing.
* `-DRETDEC_IDAPLUGIN_DOC=ON` to enable the `user-guide` target which generates the user guide document (disabled by default, the target needs to be explicitly invoked).

## User Guide

The [User Guide](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/blob/master/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf) in a PDF form is located in `doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf`.

You can build your own guide by enabling and invoking the `user-guide` target:
* `cmake .. -DRETDEC_IDAPLUGIN_DOC=ON`
* Linux: `make user-guide`
* Windows: `cmake --build . --config Release --target user-guide`
* Requires [LaTeX](https://www.latex-project.org/), LaTeX packages, and related tools.
* The resulting PDF will overwrite the original `user_guide.pdf` in `doc/user_guide`.

## License

Copyright (c) 2017 Avast Software, licensed under the MIT license. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.

RetDec IDA plugin uses third-party libraries or other resources listed, along with their licenses, in the `LICENSE-THIRD-PARTY` file.

## Contributing

See [RetDec contribution guidelines](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec/wiki/Contribution-Guidelines).

Commit message:

README.md: modify to reflect that we build both 32 and 64 EA versions.

README.md, after:

# RetDec IDA plugin

RetDec plugin for IDA (Interactive Disassembler).

The plugin is compatible with the IDA 7.x versions.
The plugin does NOT work with IDA 6.x, or freeware version of IDA 7.0.
The plugin comes at both 32-bit and 64-bit address space variants (both are 64-bit binaries). I.e. it works in both `ida` and `ida64`.
However, it can decompile only 32-bit binaries at the moment.

## Installation and Use

Currently, we officially support only Windows and Linux. It may be possible to build macOS version from the sources, but since we do not own a macOS version of IDA, we cannot create a pre-built package, or continually make sure the macOS build is not broken.

### Windows

1. Either download and unpack a pre-built package from the following list, or build and install the RetDec IDA plugin by yourself (the process is described below):

    * [Windows - for 64-bit IDA](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/releases/download/v0.7/retdec-idaplugin-v0.7-windows.zip) (v0.7)

2. Follow the user guide (`user_guide.pdf`) that is part of the downloaded package, or use the [current version](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/blob/master/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf) from this repository.

### Linux

1. Either download and unpack a pre-built package from the following list, or build and install the RetDec IDA plugin by yourself (the process is described below):

    * [Linux - for 64-bit IDA](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/releases/download/v0.7/retdec-idaplugin-v0.7-linux.zip) (v0.7)

2. Follow the user guide (`user_guide.pdf`) that is part of the downloaded package, or use the [current version](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/blob/master/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf) from this repository.

## Build and Installation

### Requirements

**Note: These are requirements to build the RetDec IDA plugin, not to run it. See our [User Guide](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/blob/master/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf) for information on plugin installation, configuration, and use.**

* A compiler supporting C++14
  * On Windows, only Microsoft Visual C++ is supported (version >= Visual Studio 2015).
* CMake (version >= 3.6)
* IDA SDK (version == 7.0)

### Process

* Clone the repository:
  * `git clone https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin.git`
* Linux:
  * `cd retdec-idaplugin`
  * `mkdir build && cd build`
  * `cmake .. -DIDA_SDK_DIR=<path>`
  * `make`
  * `make install` (if `IDA_PATH` was set, see below)
* Windows:
  * Open a command prompt (e.g. `C:\msys64\msys2_shell.cmd` from [MSYS2](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec/wiki/Windows-Environment))
  * `cd retdec-idaplugin`
  * `mkdir build && cd build`
  * `cmake .. -DIDA_SDK_DIR=<path> -G<generator>`
  * `cmake --build . --config Release -- -m`
  * `cmake --build . --config Release --target install` (if `IDA_PATH` was set, see below)
  * Alternatively, you can open `retdec-idaplugin.sln` generated by `cmake` in Visual Studio IDE.

You must pass the following parameters to `cmake`:
* `-DIDA_SDK_DIR=</path/to/idasdk>` to tell `cmake` where the IDA SDK directory is located.
* (Windows only) `-G<generator>` is `-G"Visual Studio 14 2015 Win64"` for 64-bit build using Visual Studio 2015. Later versions of Visual Studio may be used. Only 64-bit build is supported.

You can pass the following additional parameters to `cmake`:
* `-DIDA_PATH=</path/to/ida>` to tell `cmake` where to install the plugin. If specified, installation will copy plugin binaries into `IDA_PATH/plugins`, and content of `scripts/idc` directory into `IDA_PATH/idc`. If not set, installation step does nothing.
* `-DRETDEC_IDAPLUGIN_DOC=ON` to enable the `user-guide` target which generates the user guide document (disabled by default, the target needs to be explicitly invoked).

## User Guide

The [User Guide](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec-idaplugin/blob/master/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf) in a PDF form is located in `doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf`.

You can build your own guide by enabling and invoking the `user-guide` target:
* `cmake .. -DRETDEC_IDAPLUGIN_DOC=ON`
* Linux: `make user-guide`
* Windows: `cmake --build . --config Release --target user-guide`
* Requires [LaTeX](https://www.latex-project.org/), LaTeX packages, and related tools.
* The resulting PDF will overwrite the original `user_guide.pdf` in `doc/user_guide`.

## License

Copyright (c) 2017 Avast Software, licensed under the MIT license. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.

RetDec IDA plugin uses third-party libraries or other resources listed, along with their licenses, in the `LICENSE-THIRD-PARTY` file.

## Contributing

See [RetDec contribution guidelines](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec/wiki/Contribution-Guidelines).
